Hard Code | Worrying clues from a Chinese firm’s leaked data
The front desk of the I-Soon office, also known as Anxun in Mandarin, is seen after office hours in Chengdu in southwestern China's Sichuan Province on Tuesday, Feb. 20, 2024. Chinese police are investigating an unauthorized and highly unusual online dump of documents from a private security contractor linked to China’s top policing agency and other parts of its government. (AP Photo/Dake Kang)(AP)
A tranche of documents leaked from a Chinese technology company hit the code-sharing website GitHub last week. Most of it in Mandarin, the documents offer a rare, if not the first, look at how China’s private sector companies are working with its military to conduct cyber espionage and spying, both on its own citizens and foreign adversaries.

The front desk of the I-Soon office, also known as Anxun in Mandarin, is seen after office hours in Chengdu in southwestern China's Sichuan Province on Tuesday, Feb. 20, 2024. Chinese police are investigating an unauthorized and highly unusual online dump of documents from a private security contractor linked to China’s top policing agency and other parts of its government. (AP Photo/Dake Kang)(AP)PREMIUM
The front desk of the I-Soon office, also known as Anxun in Mandarin, is seen after office hours in Chengdu in southwestern China's Sichuan Province on Tuesday, Feb. 20, 2024. Chinese police are investigating an unauthorized and highly unusual online dump of documents from a private security contractor linked to China’s top policing agency and other parts of its government. (AP Photo/Dake Kang)(AP)

The company, I-Soon, also known as Anxum, works with China’s ministry of public security (responsible for internal security), the ministry of state security (external security agency), and the People’s Liberation Army.

To summarise what cybersecurity experts have found, the company appears to have the ability to function like an Advanced Persistent Threat (APT), a classification for cyber operatives with a sophisticated ability to hack into networks and devices, including some of the most secure ones deployed by the world’s largest enterprises and government entities.

Continue reading with HT Premium Subscription
